# August 16, 2022

## The Job
[[7 - The Debt Must Be Paid|The Debt Must Be Paid]]

The party took a job from the House of Maloch to track down a debtor,  Tom Jenning, who had defaulted on his debt and fled to escape his agreement of endenture. Gitash knew of Jenning as a mummy dust dealer. Rumor was that his supply dried up and he was an untrustworthy bastard. Nobody wanted to work with him. Some said he fled to the tunnels below Ironwood to find his own source of dust more than to avoid his obligation.

Gitash, being a Trau who grew up beneath the ruins of Agartha, knew the area. He led the way through the increasingly damp tunnels as the party descended.  Near the entrance to this branch of the city's aquifer, called Bedan's Cry, they found the first sign of Jenning - a cut tripwire. The limp cord was strung with dull iron bells, engraved with ancient runes, lacking clappers.

They worked together, searching the area for distinct signs of Jenning's passage. To help in this, Talgren produced an alchemical torch, which glowed with a pulsing light, shedding motes of arcane luminance which drifted to the ground like dust before passing through without touching it. 

Off to the side of one of the nearby tunnels they found a small alcove with an open sarcophagus. The scraps of decaying linen and the scraped layer of dust on the ground told them that this tomb had recently been robbed. Gitash's senses built from years of living among the restless remains of the Witch Kings' waning empire warned him that their presence here was not likely to go unnoticed. However, he and his new companions had a mission.

They followed the small signs their quarry had made through the network of cave passages and hewn tunnels - a disturbed pile of scree here, places where the algae had been smeared by a hand on the wall.  It led to a heavily eroded chamber, with a pool taking up nearly the entire area. What little floor that remained was steeply sloped and slick with moisture and mold. 

Gitash held the alchemical torch over the water, letting the glowing motes drift down and down into its depths. Either the luminant energy faded, or the water's murk overcame the glow. Whichever was the case, it was clear that the pool was of indeterminable depth, and that there were things swimming in it. Some fish of course, but other shapes moved as well, with little discernable form. They resolved not to swim across.

Talgren came prepared for difficult caving, and began unpacking rope and pitons. He began to hammer a piton into the wall, but Gitash asked him to wait a moment. He withdrew one of  the iron bells from the tripwire. He explained that, when activated by certain kinds of motion, they create an area of silence. He shook it vigorously and just like he said, there was suddenly no sound in the room. Talgren silently made a path of pitons along the wall, tying rope to them as he went to create a handhold. It took time, but they all made it safely across.

The tunnels and passages beyond the flooded room sloped still downward. The deeper they went, the wetter the tunnels became, until eventually they were wading through waist-deep water. It was rough going as they slowly picked their way along the floor strewn with hidden chunks of stone shaken loose from the ceiling from past seismic events, which were not uncommon underground at the base of the active volcano.

Zaph noticed light shining through the cracks in one of the passage's walls, higher up. A brief investigation told him that the light he'd seen was actually reflected light from their torches, and that the cracked wall was in fact a pile of rubble blocking a second, parallel tunnel, but high enough as to be free of water.  Using his massive axe for leverage, he cleared enough of the rubble to allow the group to gain the upper passage. As they traveled, they periodically came across small openings into the flooded tunnel they'd been in, so it was clear they were still moving in the right direction, assuming Jenning had gone this way.

The passage led to a cavern with many alcoves carved into the walls, in which lay stone coffins and more ornate containers of internment.  The air was foul, and there was a thick miasma of mold spores and other unwholesome things. Teadraech reached out to the spirits of the area around Ironwood, and to the spirit of the vulture specifically. In exchange for a promise to provide an offering of aged meat to the its children on the surface, the spirit granted a boon to him and his allies.  A thick mucous coating coalesced from the are around each of their faces, covering them in a thick, protective goo. They were able to pass through into the passage beyond, and a quick glance around assured them that they were still following Tom's trail.

The natural passage gave way to a corridor paved in cracked stone bricks which in turn ended in a rectangular room. The worked stone was clearly in a state of disrepair, but they could see hints of its past glory. Fragments of stone frieze lay on the ground, eroding statues lay broken on the floor. But even still, it was not hard to imagine this place as an opulent burial chamber. For that is what it was. It held only a single sarcophagus, standing open and empty like the one before.  And again the signs indicated that it was only recently plundered.

As the party had a look around the chamber, Matthias became aware of a malevolent spiritual energy pulsing near the edge of his senses. Believing this energy to be connected to the hunter Gitash mentioned before, he decided to try and communicate with it and perhaps gain some knowledge of their quarry, or at least the location of the hunter itself.  He reached out his mind to the malevolence, and did indeed gain some insight into the situation. What he felt and saw confirmed that they were indeed on Jenning's trail. However, as is often the case when one stares into the abyss, it stared back into Mathias, and he knew with complete certainty that he had its attention. It would be coming for them.